<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [-std=](#-std)
- [-D name=definition](#-d-namedefinition)
- [-g debug information](#-g-debug-information)
- [-I dir](#-i-dir)
- [-pedantic](#-pedantic)
- [-Wall](#-wall)
- [-Wmissing-prototypes (C and Objective-C only)](#-wmissing-prototypes-c-and-objective-c-only)
- [-Wsign-compare](#-wsign-compare)
- [-Wunused-parameter](#-wunused-parameter)
- [.a .so .o](#a-so-o)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

---  
title: "gcc"   
date: 2016-12-24 23:00  
---  
[TOC]  

# -std=
Determine the language standard. This option is currently only supported when compiling C or C ++.

# -D name=definition
define name as a macro, with definition 1.  
The contents of definition are tokenized and processed as if they appeared during translation phase three in a #define directive. 

# -g debug information
Produce debugging information in the operating system's native format(stabs, COFF, XCOFF, OR DWARF2). GDB will use this debuging information.

# -I dir 
Add the directory dir to the list of directories to be searched for header files. Directories named by -I are searched before the standard system include directories. If the directory dir is a standard system include directory, the option is ignored to ensure that the default search order for system directories and the special treatment of system headers are not defeated . 

# -pedantic
Issue all the mandatory diagnostics listed in the C standard. Some of them are left out by default, since they trigger frequently on harmless code.


# -Wall
This enables all the warnings about constructions that some users consider questionable, and that are easy to avoid (or modify to prevent the warning), even in conjunction with macros. This also enables some language-specific warnings described in C ++ Dialect Options and Objective-C and Objective-C ++ Dialect Options.

# -Wmissing-prototypes (C and Objective-C only)
Warn if a global function is defined without a previous prototype declaration. This warning is issued even if the definition itself provides a prototype. The aim is to detect global functions that fail to be declared in header files.

# -Wsign-compare
Warn when a comparison between signed and unsigned values could produce an incorrect result when the signed value is converted to unsigned. This warning is also enabled by -Wextra; to get the other warnings of -Wextra without this warning, use -Wextra -Wno-sign-compare.


# -Wunused-parameter
Warn whenever a function parameter is unused aside from its declaration.
To suppress this warning use the unused attribute.


# .a .so .o
Archive libraries (.a) are statically linked i.e when you compile your program with -c option in gcc. So, if there's any change in library, you need to compile and build your code again.

The advantage of .so (shared object) over .a library is that they are linked during the runtime i.e. after creation of your .o file -o option in gcc. So, if there's any change in .so file, you don't need to recompile your main program. But make sure that your main program is linked to the new .so file with ln command.

.o is an object file. This is code that is compiled to machine code but not (typically) fully linked - it may have unresolved references to symbols defined in other object files (in a library or individually) generated by separate compilation. Object files contain meta-data to support linking with other modules, and optionally also for source-level symbolic debugging (in GDB for example). Other toolchains, again typically on Windows, use the extension .obj rather than .o.
